At times,
world events may highlight
the importance of being punctual.
In May of last year,
a wildfire overtook
the Canadian city of Fort McMurray,
in the province of Alberta.
The brothers and sisters
there benefited from promptly
following the direction
they had received
from their local congregations.
There was a local needs part,
and we try to do it every year,
and this year
it was at the perfect time
because the next week
we had the fire.
And when the brother
was reviewing,
he was saying it was
a high fire-hazard year,
so be prepared.
And it was nice
that the brothers were so obedient
and took that to heart and were ready.
It happened so quickly,
from being fine and safe
to ‘We got to get out of here.’
We started to hear
the municipality saying
there are mandatory evacuations
for different neighborhoods.
So within noon, two o’clock, four o’clock,
90,000 people are in motion.
When you were standing outside,
you could hear the helicopters going,
the sirens going.
The smoke was so thick and intense.
Both the left and the right
were all in flames;
it was totally in flames.
Ugh, it was chaotic.
People running to their cars,
seeing and looking
at the big cloud of smoke
approaching them
and just the fright in their eyes.
It just came to mind:
During the local needs,
the brothers said,
“If in case of an emergency,
you have to follow directions.
“Listen to the local authorities
and listen to your local elders.”
Each elder
for the field service groups
had to care
for a small amount of people.
I was calling
all the brothers and sisters
that I could to find out
where they were and if they were safe.
Every group overseer knew exactly
where everybody in his group
was at all times.
One brother came
to help my wife and the kids
to evacuate while I was at work.
So I felt very indebted
to this brother
—that he acted in my behalf
to get my family to a safe place.
To see the brothers OK and calm,
it makes me calm.
It’s all gone,
and it went away overnight.
If we are to put
our trust in such things—
Where are they now?
Although we’ve lost all this,
our relationship with Jehovah
—we haven’t lost that.
We can’t salvage nothing .
Yeah.
Everything is gone.
Gone—everything is gone.
Yeah, this is our basement.
People are always asking us, like,
“Did you lose your home?”
And we’re like, “Yeah, we did.”
Seeing how quickly things can go,
how things can disappear,
it helps you appreciate the things
that are most important.
And not only
do we have our own lives
but we still have
our brothers and sisters
there with us.
When we escaped
and moved to Edmonton,
which is about
a four-and-a-half-hour drive from here,
the friends opened their homes to us
in the middle of the night
—2:30 a.m.—
and welcomed us.
They gave us food;
they gave us clothing;
they gave us a place to stay.
That kind of hospitality
really touched our heart.
We realized that we
hadn’t missed anything.
Some of the friends,
we haven’t seen them
since the disaster occurred
and to meet the friends again
—you know, about a month
and a half after the disaster—
at the convention
was really, really encouraging.
We see brothers that are working
with different departments
here at the convention
and also with the disaster relief committee
who have no home to go back to.
Yet, they’re so concerned
about someone else
that they don’t even think about
what they’ve really lost.
Although we’ve lost
everything materially,
we have everything spiritually.
What is gone is gone.
What is important is our lives
and our relationship with Jehovah.
The local needs part
proved very helpful
for our brothers and sisters
in Fort McMurray.
The part included direction
about having a “go bag”
and keeping the gas tanks
of their vehicles full.
Because of the distance
to the nearest town
and the heavy traffic
during the evacuation,
having a full tank of gas
proved to be very timely advice.
Instead of procrastinating,
our brothers and sisters
in Alberta followed the direction,
to their benefit.